We had a look at layouts and pages.
Now what about components here again we have dot view files.
So we have three different places where we can see taught view files now components in the components
folder simply are to small re-usable building blocks which will not be rendered as pages but as part
of pages.
So you can use them in your pages or also in your layout an example.
Let me get rid of the logo logo would be let's say a header that you follow there in the template we
could have a header h tim l element.
And here we could now start adding hador things like let's say we add an unordered list with list items
were in the list item we have our next link and that Naks link could go to users here.
So it goes to dot slash users.
And diablerie link maybe the first one goes to just slash home.
Now we could also add some styling here with C-s s and let's add the scope attribute to make sure the
styles only apply to this component.
That's what you typically do for your own components.
We can add a class to that Hetter element here and now in here we could style the header to have with
100 percent height of let's say 60 pixels.
Maybe we use flex blocks in there to distribute the idence evenly.
And we use justify content's center and a line items center to center everything horizontally and vertically
in that flex box.
Now we just need to style our unaware the list Gnab items here.
And I just recognized an error this should be a seperate list item each link should have its own list
item and we could have Nav. items now which are just added so let's add the NAB items class remove the
list styles a set of two Naunton not have bullets.
Remove all padding and margin and all to set the display to flex here to justify contemned could be
space around to add some space within our different list items or line items could be sent here too
for word icles centering.
And that's just using flex box.
I added the link where you can learn more about it at the end of this module.
And finally let's give this a width of let's say 80 percent.
Now we have created a very simple and still not super beautiful but working hetero component and this
is not a cool thing we can use it in our pages so we can go to our main page to index the file and there
we could at our head or a component like this.
Now to use it we need to import it so import header from components header view and add it to components
here.
Header.
Now we should be able to see that when we save that file and we go back to our starting page just localhost
3000.
Now we got our header here.
Now I need to change to the next to fall.
The container here also uses flex blocks and that looks a bit ugly so let's remove the entire style
section in that index file and with that.
Now we got that header at the top and the users link down there.
Now we could make this even clearer by going back and giving the headers some background color so we
could add a background color of some light gray let's say.
And with that it's really clear that we got this letter.
Again not super beautiful but we'll get there.
We'll create a far more beautiful app for it to course.
No worries.
What does work however is we can go to user here and home.
The problem is the header disappears once we enter a different route because we only added to the index
that you fall.
Now we can imported into our faults too and notice the special import poppier Tilda's slash which simply
refers to the root folder so that you don't have to go with dot dot dot dot and have to navigate around
like this so we can copy that import and go to the user's page and also add the import pop into script
section there and also add to component property view understands and registered a header as a component
here too and registering this by the way we're using that NexGen javascript syntax.
Or does this automatically transform to a header header.
So we assign the imported header to a header property which in turn is used as a select or in our template.
So which is it used to our custom HVM l element you could say.
And here we could now add the header like this and this should be components.
Now this will now really look weird if we reload the page because since it's part of that nested route
it actually goes below that input which we have in that userspace here but we could add the component
here too.
We could add the header here instead.
The big approach besides the sub optimal styling which I created like this to save some time is of course
that we have to import that component everywhere we want to use it.
We have to define it as component everywhere we want to use it.
Now there are two solutions to this.
One will be covered later.
When I dive deeper into reusable components the obvious solution here is that we can't just use components
and pages.
Let me remove it from there.
We can also use it in layouts so we can go to the default layout for example and simply edit here add
our header component here and to use it here.
Let's add import go to import here.
Import header from.
And now it's that till the symbol or an at sign both works actually component's header now and sign
in a till the work.
Because these are aliases.
Understood.
Behind the scenes by web PAC which builds the project so this will be replaced with a root folder.
Now I added it with default lay out end of the components property of that view component.
I can then again register header and I can do the same in my users layout.
Your so lets all add a script section here entered the same code and use the header here above.
Users section.
And with that if we go back to the application reload we see the header everywhere because it's now
part of our root layout and that is the important thing in the components folder you create really usable
components normal view components which you plan are using in one or multiple pages or layouts or other
components.
You can also use components and components and then use that component that uses components in a page
for example.
So anything that's not a frame so a layout or rude content of the page that's loaded has to go into
components because you don't want to end up with fat pages where all the logic is in here.
You want to use really usable pages instead.
So that is pages versus layouts versus components.
What about styling now.
Where do you put that.
Because right now the page looks ugly.
So how can we improve this.